# NCAR Strategic Capability (NSC) projects

**The next NSC submission deadline is September 19, 2023.**

NCAR researchers and computational scientists are encouraged to submit
requests for the first NCAR Strategic Capability (NSC) projects to be
run on the new Derecho system. Requests will be accepted through March
6. These allocations should target large-scale projects lasting one year
and align with NCAR’s scientific priorities and strategic plans.

Requests for Cheyenne core-hours will be accepted but they must indicate
how the additional allocation is necessary to complete work that is
already underway on Cheyenne or be limited to work that can be completed
by the end of 2023.

Due to the rapidly growing scale of the data generated by many projects
and the constraints on storage available within the CISL environment,
the NSC projects review panel is scrutinizing requests for disk and tape
storage closely. As with poorly justified requests for computing time,
poorly justified requests for storage resources will result in reduced
storage allocation awards. See additional guidance in these
[instructions for preparing proposal documents](../university-allocations/university-large-allocation-request-preparation-instructions.md),
which apply to NSC project requests as well as to large university
requests.

Long-term storage plans for NSC project data in Campaign Storage should
be coordinated with the requester's lab(s). The data management plan
section in your NSC request document should describe the arrangements
made with your lab.

NCAR computational scientists are encouraged to submit requests for the
next round of NCAR Strategic Capability (NSC) projects. These
opportunities occur approximately every six months.

Potential submitters are encouraged to consider applying to the
opportunity that best aligns with their project's anticipated timetable
and readiness. In most cases, a project should consider the opportunity
that starts shortly **after** their planned start, so that preliminary
and benchmarking results can be submitted as part of the NSC proposal. A
project for the same or similar work can receive an allocation only once
a year.

Because of the competitive nature of these allocations, labs may have
chosen to coordinate submissions from each lab. Potential applicants are
encouraged to contact their lab's or division's allocation
representative before submitting a request.

## NSC allocations

NCAR Strategic Capability (NSC) project allocations target large-scale
projects lasting one year to a few years (but not indefinitely long)
that align with NCAR’s scientific priorities and strategic plans.

Twice a year, the NCAR Executive Committee (EC) reviews and approves a
set of NSC projects for the coming 12-month period. NSC projects
requiring more than one year’s allocation must submit continuation
requests each year to report progress toward the project’s objectives.

To be considered for an NSC allocation, a proposed project:

- should directly relate to one or more specific priorities in
  the [**2020-2024 NCAR Strategic
  Plan**](https://ncar.ucar.edu/sites/default/files/documents/related-links/2020-06/NCAR_StrategicPlan_2020-24_Final.pdf).

- must be technically ready to begin production runs from the start of
  the allocation period. Requests should provide sufficient details to
  convince reviewers of the project's readiness; projects may be
  penalized for delayed progress (see below).

- must require significant computational resources, above and beyond the
  minimum level defined by the NCAR Executive Committee.

- should have a well-defined scope and completion timeline.

- may be linked to an agency funding award or awards separate from the
  NCAR Base funding.

The progress of NSC projects will be monitored quarterly to ensure that
projects are making sufficient progress and that all projects can
complete their work in the remaining allocation period. After each
quarter, projects may be subject to losing a portion of their unspent,
prorated allocation. Exceptions can be made for projects that identify
in their submissions that they have compressed or alternative timetables
due to external factors, such as the need to align computations with a
planned field campaign or calendar season.

## NSC eligibility

All NSC project requests must have a full or part-time regular NCAR
staff member with an R or T appointment as project lead. In order for
term employees to be eligible as project leads, the period of
performance of the project should not extend beyond the employee's term
date. Labs may choose to implement policies to coordinate the
submissions from the lab in each request period. Joint work with
university collaborators is eligible. Projects that span labs are
encouraged, though a single project lead should be identified.

NSC allocations have a *minimum* request size of 10 million core-hours;
the minimum size may be revised by the NCAR EC, and the EC may choose to
permit exceptions for cause. There is no maximum size limit, though in
practice the review process will attempt to accommodate approximately a
dozen large-scale projects each year. Consistent with the NSC
objectives, NSC requests *should not* aggregate many smaller projects
out of the same lab to meet the minimum request limit.

## Request format

NSC requests must prepare Proposal Documents, which should follow the
guidance and structure for [large allocation requests for
universities](../university-allocations/university-large-allocation-request-preparation-instructions.md).
Notably, NSC requests must include a five-page summary along with
relevant supporting documentation.

## Review process

NSC requests are subject to two-phase review, with final approval by the
NCAR EC.

The first phase is a scientific and strategic evaluation of the project.
The panel conducting this review is composed of representatives of each
NCAR lab and program who are appointed by the lab and program directors.
This panel evaluates proposals according to several criteria:

- The [three criteria used by the CHAP](../chap/chap-allocation-review-criteria.md) in its
  evaluation of large university requests – the effectiveness of the
  methodology, the appropriateness of the research plan, and the
  efficiency of resource use. The technical readiness assessment
  provides input into this aspect of the evaluation.

- The scientific appropriateness of the project and its relationship to
  NCAR strategic priorities.

- Whether the large-scale computational resources needed are
  commensurate with the project’s strategic priority.

The panel recommends allocation levels and identifies priority ranking
for submitted requests. A written review summary is made available to
requestors following the final decision on awards. All panel
representatives from labs and programs not involved in the proposed
project review each request.

In the second phase, the EC approves or agrees to modify the
recommendations of the review panel. CISL then establishes the final
allocation awards. Should any awarded project encounter issues that
require it to stop work or be unable to complete its proposed work,
additional allocation awards may be made to unawarded requests in order
of priority rank and as resource availability permits.

## Review schedule

NSC requests are reviewed twice per year. Projects arising too late for
NSC consideration will either need to wait, identify bridging
allocations from NCAR labs, or apply for startup allocations via the
NCAR Director’s Reserve. Such NSC pre-awards must satisfy the criteria
for a Director’s Reserve award.

## Continuation and reporting

NSC allocations come with commensurate reporting requirements. For those
projects requiring more than one year’s allocation, a continuation
request will need to be submitted as part of the next year’s NSC request
and review process. The continuation request should include a short
write-up (approximately one page) for CISL’s portion of the NCAR Annual
Report.

At the completion of each project, the project lead documents the work
conducted, resulting outcomes, and contributions toward the strategic
priority by preparing both a short write-up (approximately one page) for
CISL’s portion of the NCAR Annual Report and a brief, 15-minute
presentation to the Executive Committee.
