# CHAP: Conflict of Interest Policy

It is NCAR policy that the Computational and Information Systems
Laboratory (CISL) HPC Allocations Panel (CHAP) procedures for evaluating
National Science Foundation (NSF) computational resource requests are
fair and equitable to all requestors and protect the integrity of the
research, science, the NSF and NCAR. Recommendations are to be based on
objective judgments of merit without regard to subjective personal
biases. The guidelines and ethical standards presented here provide a
framework by which conflict of interest (COI) situations can be
identified and resolved, thus minimizing the level of personal bias in
the provision of high performance computing resources to the NSF
community.

A conflict of interest is a clash between an individual’s concern for
the public interest or the best interest of NCAR and his or her private
interests or allegiances. Conflicts of interest, actual or perceived,
may compromise NCAR's integrity and standing in the research community,
its sponsors, and the professional reputations of individuals. They also
compromise the effectiveness of the decision-making process by warping
and biasing such effectiveness. As such, conflicts of interest must be
scrupulously avoided.

Individuals involved with CHAP activities shall act impartially and not
give preferential treatment to any individual or organization, and they
may not use their position on CHAP or knowledge gained through CHAP
activities to obtain a personal advantage either for themselves or for
any other person or entity in whom or in which they have a financial or
other vested interest. Potential and actual conflicts of interest, or
the appearance of such, must be managed so that NCAR’s assessment
process is not compromised, research conducted through NCAR is free from
bias, the investment of the public is protected, and confidence in the
integrity of NCAR’s activities is maintained.

Conflicts of interest are common and even inevitable, so that a
disqualification to review should be understood to be a positive
solution and in no way is a reproach. Whether particular circumstances
create an appearance that the ethical standards outlined in this
document have been violated shall be determined from the perspective of
a reasonable person with knowledge of the relevant facts.

## Responsibilities of members

Appointment as a CHAP member requires awareness of COI situations that
may arise during the evaluation of resource requests.

Conflicts of interest may arise, for example, in the following
situations: professional and personal relationship with a requestor or
requestor’s department; use of inside information or access to such
information; financial, investment, or other ownership interests; use of
confidential information; subcontracts with employees, their immediate
families, and their business associates; work with UCAR/NCAR
contractors; involvement in legal actions against the Federal government
and other sponsors; improper use of the UCAR or NCAR name or
affiliation; and improper use of NCAR facilities and resources.

The procedures followed with regard to COIs and CHAP activities are
those of ***Disclosure***, ***Avoidance***, and ***Removal***.

### Disclosure

Prior to the assignment of reviewers, CISL will summarize all known
COI’s for the CHAP chair (Chair). In some instances, a COI is known only
to the individual panel member. Each panel member is responsible to
declare immediately each COI and to bring the matter promptly to the
attention of CISL and the Chair. The Chair, acting as an objective,
disinterested third party, determines how the matter should be handled
and additional steps, if any, to take. Simply stating and documenting
the existence of a conflict of interest does not suffice to eliminate
it. A written record of how each conflict was resolved for each CHAP
panelist shall be compiled by the Chair as part of the official record
of the meeting.

### Avoidance

Members should avoid all conflicts of interest or the appearance of
such. In the course of their duties with CHAP, members should avoid
situations in which they can influence or appear to influence a decision
or course of action, as well as any actions that may give monetary gain
or personal benefit to themselves or to those with whom they are
associated professionally and personally, as covered under the
relationships discussed infra.

### Removal

In those instances in which a CHAP member is a Requesting Scientist on a
resource request for the current panel meeting, or a Principal
Investigator (PI), or Co-Principal Investigator (CO-PI) on the NSF award
supporting the resource request, the resource request will be evaluated
and a resource allocation recommendation will be made to the CISL
Director of Operations and Services prior to the panel meeting. The
resource request will be discussed via email or via a teleconference
involving those panelists without a COI on any of the requests being
discussed. In instances where the Chair has judged that a COI exists for
a CHAP member who is not a PI, CO-PI, or Requesting Scientist for a
proposal being considered, or if there is a need for further discussion
of a request that was reviewed in advance to balance the resources
allocated, the conflicted panel member shall physically leave the room
during discussion of the proposal. In other instances in which a COI is
disclosed, and the Chair has judged it to be minor, the panelist may
continue to participate in the discussions.

## Examples of conflict of interest situations

Conflicts of interest exist for any of the relationships below:

1.  Affiliations with a requestor’s institution:

    - Current employment (formal or informal) within the same department
      or institution. In case of UCAR/NCAR employees, conflicts exist
      within the same division, institute or laboratory.

    - Any affiliation with the requestor institution including, but not
      limited to, current membership on a visiting committee or similar
      body at the requestor’s department, holder of any office,
      governing board membership, or relevant committee chairpersonship
      in the requestor’s department.

    - Currently seeking employment with the institution.

2.  Relationships with an Investigator or other person who has a
    personal, academic and/or financial interest in the request and/or
    proposal:

    - Known family or marriage relationship.

    - Business or commercial partnership.

    - Present association as primary thesis advisor or thesis student or
      past association in such a capacity over the last ten years.

    - Professional collaboration involving research and publication over
      the past four years or as Principal Investigator and Co-Principal
      Investigator on a current resource request.

3.  Other relationships with the requestor or the request. The interests
    of the following persons are to be treated as if they were the panel
    member’s own:

    - Any relationship, such as close personal friendship, that might
      affect the member’s judgments or be seen as doing so by a
      reasonable person familiar with the relationship.

    - Any other conflicts known to the panel member that would prevent
      him/her from reviewing a project in a non-biased, fair and
      objective way.

CHAP participants are encouraged to seek guidance on these conflict of
interest guidelines at any time. For UCAR/NCAR employees other policies
may apply, including: Conflict of Interest (1-1-4), Ethical Conduct
(1-1-23), and Investigator Financial Disclosure (1-1-27).

[Download the Conflict of Interest policy (pdf)](https://kb.ucar.edu/download/attachments/70549839/CHAP_COI_Policy_0.pdf?version=1&modificationDate=1627405650000&api=v2).
