# University Large Allocation Request Preparation Instructions

**The next university deadline for submitting Large Allocation Requests
will be September 8, 2025.**

**Note:** In addition to Large Allocation Requests, CISL offers
opportunities for NSF awardees, graduate students, and postdocs to
request smaller allocations. See the [University allocations](./index.md) page for
eligibility requirements and other information.

## Submitting a Large Allocation Request

Requesters must prepare and submit a Request Summary document and attach
it to the **Large Allocation Request** form as a PDF file that is no
larger than 5 MB.

The instructions below explain how to prepare the document. When your
document is ready, submit your request via the [**Large Allocation Request**](https://arc.ucar.edu/xras_submit/opportunities) form.

## Request Summary document

The Request Summary document must provide a self-contained description
of your project and allocation request. The document may be no more than
five (5) pages for Sections A–D below; Sections E–G should be included
in the same uploaded document and are permitted an additional five (5)
pages. The ***five-page limit is mandatory*** for all requests, and it
is ***strongly recommended*** that you follow the template below to help
the panel locate required information in your request.

The [CHAP Allocation Review Criteria](../chap/chap-allocation-review-criteria.md) page provides
further detail on considerations the review panel uses to
identify meritorious requests. Recent successful requests are available:
Click to download [Proposal Sample 1](./Example_Proposal_1_Spring2020.pdf) and [Proposal Sample 2](./Example_Proposal_2_Fall2019.pdf).

Due to the rapidly growing scale of data generated by many university
projects and constraints on the available storage within the CISL
environment, the CHAP continues to scrutinize large requests for storage
resources. As with poorly justified requests for
computing time, poorly justified requests for storage resources will
result in reduced storage allocation awards. Review the guidance below
for Section D and ensure that your submission addresses the relevant
points supporting your efficient, effective, and appropriate use of
CISL storage resources. Keep in mind that CISL storage resources are
typically available to university projects only for the lifetime of the
allocated project and associated NSF award; see [Campaign Storage](../../storage-systems/glade/campaign.md).

**A. Project information**

- Title of project

- Title of NSF award (if different from project title) supporting the
  computational experiments. **Important:** The NSF award must
  explicitly support the computational experiments being proposed.

- NSF award number. Due to high demand for resources, the CHAP no longer
  reviews requests for pending awards. Submit your request only after
  the NSF has awarded a grant for the research.

- Name of Project Lead and their institution

- Submission date

**B. Project overview**

The overview of the project should typically be less than half a page
and include:

- A summary of the science question and computational plan.

- The relationship of the proposed work to atmospheric and closely
  related sciences.

- The explicit linkage between the NSF award and the computational
  experiments being proposed. This is especially important if the
  published NSF award abstract does not clearly describe the
  computational component of the work funded.

**C. Science objectives**
The science objectives should be described *briefly*. This section should
be between one-half and one page long. This section should give
sufficient information for understanding the computational
plan in section D; it is not necessary to justify the science objectives
as they must have already passed NSF review.

***NOTE***:
	"Brief" is the operative word for
	your science description. The panel is not judging your science, only
	trying to understand how and if your computational experiments
	(described in Section D) will help you find answers to your science
	questions.

**D. Computational experiments and resource requirements**
The bulk of the Request Summary should focus on Section D. Discuss your
planned computational experiments and the resources needed to conduct
the work in this section. Please cover these topics and follow the
advice for how to best address each topic.

### Computational experiments

- ***Numerical approach.*** Briefly describe the numerical approach(es)
  or model(s). If a standard community model is being used, simply
  explain why it is appropriate for the scientific objectives and
  include a reference to a published description of the model or method.
  If a community model is being modified, include a description of the
  modification sufficient to explain any changes in the computational
  cost of the model and explain why modifications are necessary for the
  scientific objectives. For a non-standard or non-community model, the
  numerical description should briefly describe the approximations and
  other methods proposed to obtain valid solutions to the problem.

- ***Computational experiments.*** Describe the computational
  experiments needed to address the scientific objectives. Clearly
  indicate the number and type of experiments and how they relate to the
  objectives. Be sure to justify the model configuration choices
  that are relevant to the experiment, such as domain, grid size, time
  steps, simulated time span, ensemble size, and parameter choices.
  References on the selection of the ensemble size are strongly
  encouraged. Without an adequate justification of the model
  configuration, the panel may reduce or deny your computing request.

- ***Code performance.*** Include documentation on program code
  performance (for example, timings, performance monitoring tools). You
  may refer to a web page detailing code performance. Describe how
  flexible your code is in the number of processors it can use and why
  you may choose a particular number. The CHAP will evaluate the
  likelihood that a request can scale up its production runs based on
  this information. Information on the portability of the code to other
  platforms may also be useful to the CHAP; requesters are strongly
  encouraged to provide this information about the code and the team’s
  knowledge/use of HPC systems.

- ***Output and analysis.*** Describe the key variables to be output,
  plans for analysis, and any steps, such as data compression, taken
  to use storage resources efficiently and effectively. Projects with
  large-scale data output will be scrutinized in greater detail. In
  addition, the section should include a brief description of the
  post-processing calculations to be carried out and what output
  needs to be retained beyond the post-processing stage.

### Resource requirements

Provide a table summarizing the resources required for each experimental
configuration and the complete set of computational experiments. This
must include the number of core-hours needed and the data output volume.
The table should be accompanied by a narrative that elaborates on how
you arrived at the numbers in the table and describes how you will use
appropriate storage options or data analysis and visualization resources
as detailed below.

With the petascale systems’ ability to generate vast amounts of data,
CISL allocation requests require users to consider their data workflows
and to justify their storage resource use. Requesters should note that
the CHAP Allocation Review Criteria also apply to requests for allocated
storage resources. The CHAP reviewers do not expect lengthy justifications; in
most cases, a paragraph that demonstrates forethought commensurate with
the scale of anticipated need will suffice. For requests over 50 TB,
longer justifications become appropriate.

In addressing the CHAP review criteria with respect to storage
resources, justify the project’s rationale for which data will be
stored, the project’s work plan for managing data, and the project’s
need to retain the data to be stored long term. While some statement of
storage resource needs is expected in Section D, you may choose to
provide details related to longer-term storage needs in Section E (Data
Management Plan) to keep sections A-D within the five-page limit. *While
use of scratch disk space need not be formally justified in the
project's allocation request, demonstrating effective use of scratch
space within the overall work plan can help reviewers understand your
needs for Campaign Storage space.*

***1. HPC.*** The table should give the core-hours per simulated year or
appropriate time period and the total core-hours needed for each
experimental configuration as well as the total core-hours for the
request. Describe how you arrived at the number of core-hours for each
proposed computational experiment. If not provided elsewhere, details on
how HPC resource requirements are estimated MUST be included to help
reviewers evaluate whether the resources sought are justified and will
be used efficiently.

!!! note "Estimating Derecho resource needs."
    Researchers are strongly encouraged to request a Small allocation on
    Derecho or Derecho GPU to conduct benchmark and test runs that will
    provide the most accurate estimate for your overall resource needs.

    Derecho allocations are made in core-hours. The core-hours used for a job are
    calculated by multiplying the number of nodes used times the wall-clock duration
    in hours times the 128 cores on each node. Core-hour calculations assume that
    all jobs will run in the regular queue. Derecho jobs are charged for use of all
    128 cores on each node.

    Derecho GPU allocations are made in GPU-hours. The GPU-hours for a job are
    calculated by multiplying the number of GPU nodes used times the wall-clock
    duration in hours times the 8 GPUs on each node.

**2. Campaign Storage.** In the table showing core-hours, include a
column for the final, post-processed, post-analysis amount of data
intended for Campaign Storage for each experimental configuration and
include the total terabytes planned. Any plans to store raw, unprocessed
or temporary data should be justified carefully. Projects with more than
50 TB planned for Campaign Storage are expected to provide more detailed
justifications.


!!! note "Justifying Campaign Storage space requests."
	A successful justification for Campaign Storage space would describe,
    for example, that the data have a meaningful purpose beyond the
	post-processing phase; that variables or time steps not needed for
    planned analyses will be filtered out; and that HPC and analysis
	stages are interleaved where practical. *A simple summation of all
    bytes generated by all proposed HPC runs may set an upper limit on
	storage space needs but will not automatically constitute a sufficient
    justification in and of itself*. In most cases, it is not necessary
	to archive all output; only the subset of data that is critical to
    the science. Where appropriate, the justification should also describe
	how the project will reduce holdings in subsequent years (for example,
    a project may have a larger need during peak activity that will decrease in
	out-years). As with computational justifications, the detail for
	storage justifications should grow commensurately with the project’s
	anticipated need.

**3. Data analysis and visualization (DAV).** *For
standard interactive access to the Casper cluster, we will provide up to
10,000 core-hours with no special justification.* Projects with more
extensive plans for use of Casper should justify their needs in a
manner similar to their HPC requests based on benchmarks and cost
estimates from sample runs.

***Multi-year plan.*** While the CHAP makes an effort to award each
project its full resource need, very large requests should consider
providing a breakdown showing the projected use of resources and, if
applicable, post-processed data during each year of the allocation. Tie
this to the planned computational experiments completed or partially
completed each year.

***Special requirements.*** Please specify any resource requirements
that fall outside of the default environment limits, such as the need
for longer job runtime limits, that may affect your ability to complete
the proposed computational experiments.

### Additional supporting information

*Sections E through G together must be no more than an additional five
pages.*

**E. Data management plan.** Consistent with NSF’s requirement that
all proposals include a data management plan, summarize your plan for
managing the data resulting from this computational work throughout and
beyond the period of performance for the NSF award. This section can be
used to provide additional details or justification for the storage
resource needs, to describe plans for sharing the project’s data, and to
summarize any anticipated long-term storage needs. *A well-justified
data management plan is critical because of the potential for
large-scale projects to produce extensive data output.*

**F. Accomplishment report.** The accomplishment report should encompass
computations performed using CISL resources by the PI or Project
Lead. *Clearly distinguish accomplishments on this CISL
project* (that is, for prior CISL use associated with the same NSF
award) from accomplishments related to other past use of CISL resources. Related
work performed on CISL resources by other members of a larger research
group may be described, if relevant to this request. Briefly describe
the calculations and scientific accomplishments that were completed.
Include publications submitted or published that resulted from use of
CISL resources. List graduate students who used these computational
resources and indicate if these resources supported their thesis or
dissertation research. If so, please include the thesis or dissertation
title(s).

**G. References.** Please limit to those directly related to the
proposed project and referenced in your Request Summary document.

**H. Figures and captions.** *Optional*. Figures may be embedded within
the main body of the Request Summary; embedded figures count against the
five-page limit. Figures and charts at the end of the Request Summary
will not count against the five-page limit.
